<a name="topage"></a>

# 01.02_first_program

## 01. package -

*  package or `package structure`
* `package structure` - is a file structure that organize different files in your program.
* `root` - top package structure (root) is usually a backward domain name.
* a package make the program code classified into different unit of code (subjects).
   * example: utilities, hr(human resource), sales, java_core, etc.

#### package name as domanin name

```
com.myDomain.utilities
```

* package name format: `lower-case`
  ( declare package name with lower case ).

* package name is a `subject` description name or business `description` topic.
   * example: utilities, hr(human resource), sales, etc.

* a `name` of the program file is
   * a combination of the `program name` and full package structure of the package is reside in.

#### package

```
package java_core;
```

#### Summary
* package `name`: 
   * backward domain name + program name -or- description topic name.
   * package name can be a subject description name -or- business description topic.

----------------------

## 02. java class

* Every line of code that can actually run needs to be inside a `class`.
* `Statement` is a single line of code that performs a specific task.
* class name: description topic/subject name.
* class name format: start with `Capital Letter` (Uppercase).
   * Example: HelloWorld, calculator, Etc.
* class need to be focus in one subject.
   * Example: HelloWorld, calculator, Etc.
* keep your class as small as possible to improve usability and readability.
* a class consist/contain of one or more `method`.

#### `Statement` inside `class`

```
package java_core;

public class HelloWorld {

}
```

#### create a class:
   * class name will start with `Capital Letter`
      * "HelloWorld".
   * `{` - open curly branch -
      * define the beginning of the definition of the class 
   * `}` - closing curly branch -
      * define the end of the definition of the class
   * `{ code; }` -
      * write the code between the `{` -(open curly branch) -and- `}` -(closing curly branch).

##### output

```
Hello World
```

#### Summary
* Every program in Java must have a `class`.
* Every line of code that can actually run needs to be inside a `class`.
* `Statement` is a single line of code that performs a specific task.
* class name: description one topic/subject name.
* class name format: start with `Capital Letter` (Uppercase).
   * Example: HelloWorld, calculator, Etc.
* a class consist/contain of one or more `method`.
* Every program starts from the `main` method.

----------------------

## 03. java method

---fix------------------------------------------------------------------------VVV

* method name: a method description topic/subject name.
   * Example: calc()
* method name format: start with lower case Letter
   * Example: calc()
- a class consist/contain of one or more method.
  each method archive a purpose.
 
 - a method name is word that describe the purpose of the method.
   a method define the action you can execute inside classes.
   method can operate with number, text, color, sound and more.
* Every class contain one or more methods that start with `main` method.
- method name: a method description topic/subject name.
- method name format: start with lower case Letter "methodExample".

- a class consist/contain of one or more method.
  each method archive a purpose.
 
 - a method name is word that describe the purpose of the method.
   a method define the action you can execute inside classes.
   method can operate with number, text, color, sound and more.

-- example:

   add(2,2); 
   /// output: 4
   
   add("abc","c")
   /// output: abc
   
   print("hello");
   /// output: hello
   
 - a method name is word that describe the purpose of the method.
   a method define the action you can execute inside classes.
   method can operate with number, text, color, sound and more.
 
 - method can call other method (method calling each other).
 -  
 
- create a method:
-- method name will start with a lower case letter "methodExample".
-- method parameters (input fields) declared inside brackets, 
   between '(' - open brackets -and- ')' - closing brackets.
   we can declared many method parameters (input fields) between 0-N (3-5 parameters per method recommended). 
   
-- '{' - open curly branch -  define the beginning of the definition of the method 
-- '}' - closing curly branch -  define the end of the definition of the method
-- '{ code; }' - write the code between the '{' -(open curly branch) -and- '}' -(closing curly branch).

-- method parameters - a method parameters is a variable/s inside method definition.
-- method parameters size: 3-5 parameters per method.

-- method arguments - when calling a method with input values, 
                      we are calling a method with method arguments.

--- example: method parameters -and- method arguments.
	<Ex_04_01_class_method>
    <Ex_04_02_methodParameterArgument>

///JavaNiceStuffExample/src/a_java_core/a_BasicEexample/A_javaBasicVariable.java
///jcm/com.mydomain.jcm/src/jcm/manual/01.basic/01.jcm.kis.txt
///jcm/com.mydomain.jcm/src/jcm/manual/01.basic/01.jcm.kis.txt
///jcm/com.mydomain.jcm/src/jcm/manual/01.basic/01.jcm.txt


---/fix------------------------------------------------------------------------^^^

#### `welcome` method

```
public void welcome() {
	System.out.println("Welcome");
}
```

## 03.01 java `main` method

* Every class contain one or more methods that start with `main` method.
* Every program starts from the `main` method.
  
#### example: main() method template:

```
public static void main(String[ ] args) {

}
```

#### create a `main` method:

* `public`: anyone can access it
* `static`: method can be run without creating an instance of the class containing the main method
* `void`: method doesn't return any value
* `main`: the name of the method
* `String[ ] args` :
* `{` - open curly branch -
   * define the beginning of the definition of the method 
* `}` - closing curly branch -
   * define the end of the definition of the method
* The method's parameters are declared inside the parentheses `( )` that follow the name of the method.
   *  ( String[] args )

#### example: package, class, main method

```
package java_core;

public class HelloWorld {

	public void Welcome() {
		System.out.println("Welcome");
	}

	public static void main(String[] args) {
		System.out.println("Hello World");
	}
}
```

* example: test() method, return nothing :
 void test()
 
----------------------


---fix------------------------------------------------------------------------VVV
### 05 import -

#### import 
* Every program file will reuse an exit code by `importing` that code in to your program files.
* `import package` will be declared beneath/under the package `declaration name`.
*  import class file name from a package

\\\\\\\continue\\\\\

```
	// line 1 // package declaration name
  com.domain.myJava.example1.shop
    
  // line 2 // import class file name "parent" 
  import com.domain.myJava.example1.book.parent 
```

### static import - 


---------------------- 




----------------------
  
<p align="right">(<a href="#topage">back to top</a>)</p>
<br/>
<br/>
