<a name="topage"></a>

# 001.javaBasicVariable

## `java`
* Java is a high level, modern programming language.
* Java is Platform Independent, which means that you only need to write the program once 
   to be able to run it on a number of different platforms (operating system).
* Java is used to: 
    * develop apps for Google's Android OS
    * various Desktop Applications 

## `package`
* A package is a "namespace" that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. (like folder/directory to files)
* example
```
package a_java_core.a_BasicEexample;
```

## `class`
* A "class" is the blueprint from which individual objects are created.
* A class: every line of code in java need to be inside a "Class".
* A class contains all the lines of code in the file.
* example
```
public class A_javaBasicVariable {
}
```

## `main()` - java `main` Method
* In Java, each application has an entry point (a starting point), which is a method called "main".
    *  Every program in Java must have a class.
    *  Every Java program starts from the main method.

* example:
```java
class MyClass {
  public static void main(String[ ] args) {
    System.out.println("Hello world");
  }
}
```

### java main() method template:

* main() template
```
  public static void main(String[ ] args)
```

* method template:
    * `public`: anyone can access it
    * `static`: method can be run without creating an instance of the class containing the main method
    * `void`: method doesn't return any value
    * `main`: the name of the method


## attributes 
* attributes (global variable) 
    * attributes / variable declaration
    * attributes is a variable inside a class.
* exmaple
```
enter example
```

## access Modifiers attributes: 
* access Modifiers attributes: private/ public/ default/ protected.
   * `private` - accessible only within the declared class itself.
   * `public` - accessible from any other class.
   * `default` -  no access control modifier available to any other class in the same package.
   * `protected` - like "default" + "subclasses" can access protected variable/method of the superclass

* example:
```
TODO: add example
```

## variable
* variables are the data containers that save the data values 
* variable type: byte, short, int, long, float, double, boolean

```
TODO: add example
```


----

<p align="right">(<a href="#topage">back to top</a>)</p>
<br/>
<br/>
