<a name="topage"></a>

# java_dictionary

## A

## access Modifiers attributes: 
### access Modifiers attributes: private/ public/ default/ protected.
* `private` - accessible only within the declared class itself.
* `public` - accessible from any other class.
* `default` -  no access control modifier available to any other class in the same package.
* `protected` - like "default" + "subclasses" can access protected variable/method of the superclass.

## attributes 
### attributes (global variable) 
* attributes / variable declaration
* attributes is a variable inside a class.
## B
## C
###  class
* A "class" is the blueprint from which individual objects are created.
* A class: every line of code in java need to be inside a "Class". 
* example
```
public class A_javaBasicVariable {
}
```
## D
## E
## F
## G
## H
## I
## J
### Java
* Java is platform-independent - Write once, run anywhere
   * linux, windows, ios... 
## K
## L
## M
## N
## O
## P
### package
* A package is a "namespace" that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. (like folder/directory to files)
* example
```
package a_java_core.a_BasicEexample;
```
## Q
## R
## S
### static 
*  static variable/method belongs to the class (no need to define an "instance of the class").
### Statements
* a statement is a single line of code that performs a specific task.
* example
```
System.out.println("text Statements");
System.out.println(156);
```

## T 
## U
## V
## variable - Variables are the data containers that save the data values
### variable type: byte, short, int, long, float, double, boolean

## W
## X
## variable type: 
## Y
## Z


----

<p align="right">(<a href="#topage">back to top</a>)</p>
<br/>
<br/>

