<a name="topage"></a>

# 01.01.javaBasicVariable.md

## `Variables`
* variable is a value `placeholder` that can be set.
* variable value can be `changed` while the program is running.
* variable can be used as `input` -or- `output` value of method/s.
* variable can be declared/set in different data type/s like `number, text, etc..`
* variable Names can contain `letters`, `digits`, `underscores`, `dollar signs <$>`
* variable Names must begin with a letter <a..z>
* variable Names start with a `lower case` letter "variableExample"
* variable type are written in lowercase 

### example: variable/s name/s
* myOldPc
* myNewPc
* myWorkPc

## variable `types` 
* variables type are the data containers that save the data type values 
* variable type: byte, short, int, long, float, double, boolean

### Primitive Data Types
| Primitive | #1 | #2 | #3 | #4 |
| :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| boolean | boolean | --- | --- | --- | 
| character | char | --- | --- | --- | 
| integers | byte | short | int | long | 
| float | float | double | --- | --- | 

### Primitive Data Types
| name | type | size | size in bit/byte| description |
| :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| boolean | boolean | true/false | 1 bit | true/false, yes/no, on/off | 
| byte | number | -128 <--> 127 | 8 bit / 1 byte | -- |
| short | number | -32768 <--> 32767 | 16 bit / 2 byte | -- |
| int | numbers | -2147483648 <--> 2147483647 | 32 bit / 4 byte | integers - whole numbers |
| long | number | -9223372036854775808 <--> 9223372036854775807 | 64 bit / 8 byte | whole numbers |
| float | decimal | 1.4E-45 <--> 3.4028235E38 | 32 bit / 4 byte | real numbers with a decimal points x6 |
| double | decimal | 4.9E-324 <--> 1.7976931348623157E308 | 64 bit / 8 byte | real numbers with a decimal points x15|
| char | character | 0..9, a..z, etc | 16 bit / 2 byte | single unicode/character/letter/ASCII values |

----

### Non-Primitive Data Types

* Primitive Data Types are: String, Array, Interface, Classes
* variable type are written in lowercase
* variable Names must begin with a letter <a..z>

----

### Non-Primitive Data Types

##### TODO: ADD a `screenshots`

----

* [java]
## `package`
* A package is a "namespace" that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. (like folder/directory to files)
* example
```
package a_java_core.a_BasicEexample;
```

## `class`
* A "class" is the blueprint from which individual objects are created.
* A class: every line of code in java need to be inside a "Class".
* A class contains all the lines of code in the file.
* example
```
public class A_javaBasicVariable {
}
```

## `main()` - java `main` Method
* In Java, each application has an entry point (a starting point), which is a method called "main".
    *  Every program in Java must have a class.
    *  Every Java program starts from the main method.

* example:
```java
class MyClass {
  public static void main(String[ ] args) {
    System.out.println("Hello world");
  }
}
```

### java main() method template:

* main() template
```
  public static void main(String[] args) {
		// TODO Auto-generated method stub
	}
```

* method template:
    * `public`: anyone can access it
    * `static`: method can be run without creating an instance of the class containing the main method
    * `void`: method doesn't return any value
    * `main`: the name of the method
    * `String[] args`: This is an `array of String objects`.
        * each `String` in the array is one of the command-line arguments when executing the Program code - `MyProgram`.
        ```
        $ java MyProgram arg1 arg2 arg3
        ```
    * `{  }`: code block

## attributes 
* attributes (global variable) 
    * attributes / variable declaration
    * attributes is a variable inside a class.
* exmaple
```
enter example
```

## access Modifiers attributes: 
* access Modifiers attributes: private/ public/ default/ protected.
   * `private` - accessible only within the declared class itself.
   * `public` - accessible from any other class.
   * `default` -  no access control modifier available to any other class in the same package.
   * `protected` - like "default" + "subclasses" can access protected variable/method of the superclass

* example:
```
TODO: add example
```

```
TODO: add example
```


----

<p align="right">(<a href="#topage">back to top</a>)</p>
<br/>
<br/>
