<a name="topage"></a>

# 📘 01.02 — First Java Program

### `Statement`

* `Statement` is a line of code that performs a specific task and end with a Semicolon ';'.
* `System.out.println();` is a Statement that print output.

### ✨ Example: 1 Statement

```java
System.out.println("Hello World");
```

**🖥️ Output:**

``` 
Hello World
```


### ✨ Example: 2 Statements

```java
package com.java.core.hr;

public class Main {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		System.out.println("My Age:");
		System.out.println(25);
	}
}
``` 

**🖥️ Output:**

``` 
My Age:
25
```
----

## ☕ 01 - java program


```java
package com.java.core.hr;

public class Main {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		System.out.println("My Age:");
		System.out.println(25);
	}
}
``` 

#### class

* Every line of code that can actually run needs to be inside a `class`.
  
``` java
public class Main {
}
```

#### main() method 

* main() method is java program starting point.

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {
}
```

-----

## 📦 01 — Java Package

### 🧩 Example: Package named `hr`

```java
package com.java.core.hr;
```

### 📚 What is a Package?

* `package` or `package structure`  is a file structure that organize different files in your program (like folder/directory to files).
* `package` is a `namespace` that organizes a set of related `classes` and `interfaces`. 
* `root package` - top package structure (root) is usually a backward domain name (a reversed domain name).
   * Example: `com.myDomain.utilities`

* `package` or `package structure` reflects the file structure of your project.

### 🧠 Why Use Packages?

* Improves code organization and readability.
* Supports modular development.
* a package make the program code classified into different unit of code (subjects).
   * Example: utilities, hr(human resource), sales, java_core, gui, etc.

#### package name as domanin name

```java
com.myDomain.utilities
```

### 📝 Naming Conventions

* java naming convention for a `package` name format: start with `lower-case`
  ( declare package name with lower case ).

* package name is a `subject` description name or business `description` topic.
   * example: utilities, hr(human resource), sales, gui, etc.

* a `name` of the program file is
   * a combination of the `program name` and full package structure of the package is reside in.

#### package example: 

```java
package java_core;
```

### ✅ Summary
* package `name`: 
   * Formats:
      * backward domain name + program name.
      * description topic name.
   * Purposes:
      * package name can be a subject description name
      * business description topic.

-----

## 🧱 02. java class

### 🧩 example: package and class

```java
package com.java.core.hr;

public class Main {

}
```

### 📚 What is a Class?

* A `class` is the building block of Java programs.
   * Every line of code that can actually run needs to be inside a `class`.
   * All executable code must reside inside a class.
* class name: describes topic/subject name.
* `Statement` is a line of code that performs a specific task and end with a Semicolon ';'.

### 📝 Naming Conventions

* java naming convention for a `class` name format: start with `Capital Letter` (Uppercase).
   * Examples: `HelloWorld`, `Calculator`
* keep your class as small as possible to improve usability and readability.
   * Keep classes `small and readable`.
* Each class should focus on `one subject`.
 * a class consist/contain of one or more `method`.

### 🧩 Example: Statement Inside Class

* statement print "Test" on screen.

```java
package com.java.core.hr;

public class Main {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		System.out.println("Test");
	}
}
```

**🖥️ Output:**

```
Test
```

#### create a class:
   * class name will start with `Capital Letter`
      * "Main".
   * `{` - open curly branch -
      * define the beginning of the definition of the class 
   * `}` - closing curly branch -
      * define the end of the definition of the class
   * `{ code; }` -
      * write the code between the `{` -(open curly branch) -and- `}` -(closing curly branch).

   * code Note: `System.out.println("Test");`
      * write/print output to the console. 


### ✅ Summary

* Every program in Java must have a `class`.
   * Every line of code that can actually run needs to be inside a `class`.
* class name: description one topic/subject name.
* class name format: start with `Capital Letter` (Uppercase).
   * Example: HelloWorld, calculator, Etc.
* Classes contain of one or more `method`.
* Every program starts from the `main` method.



-----
## 🔧 03 — Java Method

### 📚 What is a Method?

* A `method` performs a specific action or task.
* Method names describe their purpose:
* Method name is a word that describe the purpose/topic/subject of the method.
   * Examples: `calculate`, `addTax`
* a class consist/contain of one or more method.
   * each method archive a purpose/action you can execute inside classes.
   * each methods can interact with numbers, text, sound, etc.
   * each method can call other method (method calling each other).


#### `welcome` method

```java
public void welcome() {
	System.out.println("Welcome");
}
```

**🖥️ Output:**

```
Welcome...
```

### 📝 Naming Conventions

* java naming convention for a `method` name format: start with `lower-case`
   * Examples: `calculate`, `greetUser`, `addTax`

* java `main()` method start the program, start with the word `main` (main() method.
   * continued in section `03.01 java main method`

### 🧩 Example: Method Definition

```java
public void greeting() {
	System.out.println("Welcome...");
}   
```

**🖥️ Output:**

```
Welcome...
```
  
### 🛠️ Creating a Method

* method parameters (input fields) declared inside brackets `( )`
   * between '(' - open brackets -and- ')' - closing brackets.
      * method parameters - a method parameters is a variable/s inside method definition.
      * we can declared many method parameters (input fields) between 0-N (3-5 parameters per method is recommended).
     
### 🧩 Example: method parameters 

* method parameters: "arg1", "arg2")
   * (String arg1, String arg2)
    
``` java
	public static void greeting(String arg1, String arg2) {
		System.out.println("Welcome " + arg1 + ".." + arg2);
	}
```

* Code is written between curly branch `{ }`
   * '{' - open curly branch -  define the beginning of the definition of the method 
   * '}' - closing curly branch -  define the end of the definition of the method
   * '{ code; }' - write the code between the '{' -(open curly branch) -and- '}' -(closing curly branch).
* method arguments - when calling a method with input values, we are calling a method with method arguments.
   * calling method with `arguments` is calling a method that contain `parameters`.

     
### 🧩 Example: method arguments 

* method arguments: "one", "Two")

``` java
	greeting("one", "Two"); 
```

### 📌 Definitions

* `Method Parameters`: Variables declared in method definition
* `Method Arguments`: Values passed when calling a method

### 🧩 Example:

```java
package hello;
public class Hello {

    /// Method with "arg1" and "arg2" Parameters
	public static void greeting(String arg1, String arg2) {
		System.out.println("Welcome " + arg1 + ".." + arg2);
	}
	
	public static void main(String[] args) {
        /// Method with "one" and "Two" Arguments 
		greeting("one", "Two"); // method calling with method arguments ("one", "Two")
	}
}

```


### 🧩 Example: Statement Inside Class


--- example: method parameters -and- method arguments.
	<Ex_04_01_class_method>
    <Ex_04_02_methodParameterArgument>


---/fix------------------------------------------------------------------------vvv


## 03.01 java `main` method

* Every Java program starts from the `main` method.
* Every Java program contain `main` method inside one or more classes.

  
#### example: main() method template:

```
public static void main(String[ ] args) {

}
```

#### create a `main` method:

* `public`: anyone can access it
* `static`: method can be run without creating an instance of the class containing the main method
* `void`: method doesn't return any value
* `main`: the name of the method
* `String[ ] args` :
* `{` - open curly branch -
   * define the beginning of the definition of the method 
* `}` - closing curly branch -
   * define the end of the definition of the method
* The method's parameters are declared inside the parentheses `( )` that follow the name of the method.
   *  ( String[] args )

```
public static void main(String[] args) {

}
```

#### example: package, class, main method

```
package java_core;

public class HelloWorld {

	public void Welcome() {
		System.out.println("Welcome");
	}

	public static void main(String[] args) {
		System.out.println("Hello World");
	}
}
```

* example: test() method, return nothing :
 void test()
 
-----


---fix------------------------------------------------------------------------VVV
### 05 import -

#### import 
* Every program file will reuse an exit code by `importing` that code in to your program files.
* `import package` will be declared beneath/under the package `declaration name`.
*  import class file name from a package

\\\\\\\continue\\\\\

```
	// line 1 // package declaration name
  com.domain.myJava.example1.shop
    
  // line 2 // import class file name "parent" 
  import com.domain.myJava.example1.book.parent 
```

### static import - 



#### ???


///JavaNiceStuffExample/src/a_java_core/a_BasicEexample/A_javaBasicVariable.java
///jcm/com.mydomain.jcm/src/jcm/manual/01.basic/01.jcm.kis.txt
///jcm/com.mydomain.jcm/src/jcm/manual/01.basic/01.jcm.kis.txt
///jcm/com.mydomain.jcm/src/jcm/manual/01.basic/01.jcm.txt


---/fix------------------------------------------------------------------------^^^

----- 

  
<p align="right">(<a href="#topage">back to top</a>)</p>
<br/>
<br/>
