<a name="topage"></a>

# 01.02_first_program

#### example: first program `HelloWorld`

```
package java_core;

public class HelloWorld {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		System.out.println("Hello World");
	}
}
```

## 01. package 
* `package` is a file structure that organize different files in your program.
   * like folder/directory to files.
* java naming convention for a package name format: start with lower-case.
   * example: java_core, javaCore
* `root` - top package structure (root) is usually a backward domain name.
   * `com.myDomain.utilities`
* a package make the program code classified into different unit of code (subjects).
   * example: java_core, utilities, hr(human resource), sales, etc.
  
#### example: 
```
package java_core;
```

-----

## 02. class

* Every line of code that can actually run needs to be inside a `class`.
* `Statement` is a single line of code that performs a specific task.
* class name: describes topic/subject name.
* java naming convention for a `class` name format: start with `Capital Letter` (Uppercase).
* class contain a block of code (Statements) start and end with brackets { }

#### example: 
```
public class HelloWorld {

}
```

-----

## 03 `main` method

* Every Java program starts from the `main` method.
* Every Java program contain `main` method inside one or more classes.
* java naming convention for a `method` name format: start with `lower-case`
   * example: `main` 
* method or main method contain a block of code (Statements) start and end with brackets { }

#### example: 
```
	public static void main(String[] args) {

	}
```

-----

## 04. System.out.println

* `Statement` is a single line of code that performs a specific task.
* `System.out.println` is a statement that display `output` to the screen.
* `output` is an information that a program produce.
   * output with double quotes is a text.
   * output without double quotes is a number.
      * "" = quotes  

#### example: 
```
		System.out.println("Hello World");
		System.out.println(156);
```

----

## 05. package, class, method

#### example

```
package java_core;

public class HelloWorld {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		System.out.println("Hello World");
	}
}
```

##### output

```
Hello World
```

----

<p align="right">(<a href="#topage">back to top</a>)</p>
<br/>
<br/>
